# Framework for career progression - FAQs

## Q: Are these checklists that I need to follow strictly?

Definitely not. These are guidelines that will help you follow the path you want
to take and they are not intended to be used as checklists. We are aiming to
encourage the development of behaviours and long term impact instead of one-off
achievements.

## Q: How do I know I’m ready for a promotion?

This will be a combination of your impact, personal development and how your
manager and colleagues see your development. We would like to encourage people
to think about their career development and discuss with their managers how to
be prepared for promotions and create a plan for it. With goals in mind it will
be easier to develop the behaviours and consistency to justify your promotion.
At that point, you and your line manager should agree on it and put forward as
proposal.

## Q: Do I need to be promoted to get a pay rise?

No, you can be awarded a pay rise or an upgrade in your benefits without a
promotion. Each position has certain brackets on pay and benefits to allow for
this. However, after a certain level, we do expect an increase in
responsibilities that might only be possible with a promotion.

## Q: Is this framework set in stone?

Definitely not. Expect this framework to evolve as the company evolves and
please feel free to suggest changes to it.

## Q: Do I have to be promoted to stay in the company?

In general no, but there are exceptions. We do expect Software Engineers level I
and Software Engineers level II to evolve and become Software Engineers level
III. It’s at that level that they are working at full capacity and providing
value to both the company and to our clients. From that point forward, it’s a
matter of where you would like to be in the future and we want to provide room
for you to grow as you see fit, providing it’s in line with the company’s goals
 and values.

## Q: I can’t see my special circumstances listed, how do I proceed?

The intention of this framework is not to provide a solution for every possible
situation, but instead to give us guidelines when making decisions. That means
that if there are special circumstances to be addressed, you should speak with
your line manager about those.

## Q: Do I need to match all skills at a certain level to be eligible for a promotion?

No, those are guidelines to help cater for multiple cases. We do expect someone
at a given level to show skills in many of those areas, but we are mostly
interested in consistency, improvement in behaviours and solid feedback from
peers.

## Q: Is the career path a reporting line?

No, this is intended as a framework for career progression and not a hierarchy
for reporting.

## Q: My specialism isn’t listed, what does that mean?

We will always require specialists in many different areas and the ones
provided are simply examples representative of the majority of staff in the
company. If your area of specialisation isn’t listed, it means you should look
for the default list of expectations for guidance, which is the same for all
 engineers. If you think your specialism should be listed and particular skills
 defined, please have a chat with your line manager about it.

## Q: Why aren’t there seniority levels in the role names (e.g. junior/senior)?

There are two reasons for this - one is that it could be discriminatory in terms
of age - we want people of any age to feel comfortable to be an Engineer at any
of the levels proposed; the other reason is that commercially, junior/mid/senior
aren’t good ways to categorise the offerings we have.

## Q: What’s the process for promotion?

This will be connected with your appraisals and goal settings. Together with
your line manager, decide on your personal goals, which should be aligned with
the role you would like to pursue. After setting those goals, there are two
windows of opportunity to discuss promotions, and they coincide with your
appraisals. There is no formal process, however the line manager and HR team
will have to be in agreement in order for that to take place.
