roles/principal_engineer.md, before:

# Principal Engineer

Here are a number of guidelines in several areas that we would like to see.

## Technical Guidelines

| For all |
| ------ |
| Sought out for technical guidance; anticipates technical issues at the product level and makes architectural and design decisions to avoid them |
| Develops policy on key areas such as open source and architectural concerns |
| Establish OSS projects & principles |
| Deep knowledge of architecture and systems |
| Owner or and expert on large sections of a codebase |
| Has respect and influence over large teams of engineers |
| Identifies new technologies with which to engage clients and provide value |
| Identifies technical areas at existing and potential clients in which YLD could pitch for new business |
| Leads the conversations internally about the direction of major areas of the technology, drives wide-team consensus to the adoption of this direction, and uses this direction to inspire engineers |
| Able to recognise and make trade-offs with respect to the whole system |
| Fully capable of owning and running entire subsystems |
| Sets the technical path and direction for the company |
| Understands business need and impact of choices |
| In-depth understanding of system security |
| Encourages and sets the best practices in the organisation |
| Has credible recognition within the industry |

## Other Guidelines

| Personal skills | Delivery | Impact | Communication and Leadership |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Excellent attention to detail | Listens and guides debates to help reach a consensus; once a decision is made, clearly communicates and backs that decision | Builds capabilities of more junior engineers through mentorship and advice | Exhibits ownership across the organisation |
| Determined | Quickly breaks down complex problems into potention solutions, knowns, and unknowns | Spearheading company wide technology initiatives | Evangelist for the company by being actively involved in the communities |
| Purposeful |  | Makes positive impact on the entire company's technical trajectory |  |
| Assertive |  | Seen as a role model and mentor to every technical member of the team |  |
| Adaptable |  |  |  |
| Completely self-driven |  |  |  |
| Demonstrates independent decision making |  |  |  |

Commit message:

Update description of Principal Engineer

roles/principal_engineer.md, after:

# Principal Engineer

A Principal Engineer is a very experienced engineer that is an expert in some of
the technologies we use at YLD. This person would be invaluable when solving
complex problems both with our clients and with our own products.

Here are a number of guidelines in several areas that we would like to see.

## Technical Guidelines

| For all |
| ------ |
| Sought out for technical guidance; anticipates technical issues at the product level and makes architectural and design decisions to avoid them |
| Develops policy on key areas such as open source and architectural concerns |
| Establish OSS projects & principles |
| Deep knowledge of architecture and systems |
| Owner or and expert on large sections of a codebase |
| Has respect and influence over large teams of engineers |
| Identifies new technologies with which to engage clients and provide value |
| Identifies technical areas at existing and potential clients in which YLD could pitch for new business |
| Leads the conversations internally about the direction of major areas of the technology, drives wide-team consensus to the adoption of this direction, and uses this direction to inspire engineers |
| Able to recognise and make trade-offs with respect to the whole system |
| Fully capable of owning and running entire subsystems |
| Sets the technical path and direction for the company |
| Understands business need and impact of choices |
| In-depth understanding of system security |
| Encourages and sets the best practices in the organisation |
| Has credible recognition within the industry |

## Other Guidelines

| Personal skills | Delivery | Impact | Communication and Leadership |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Excellent attention to detail | Listens and guides debates to help reach a consensus; once a decision is made, clearly communicates and backs that decision | Builds capabilities of more junior engineers through mentorship and advice | Exhibits ownership across the organisation |
| Determined | Quickly breaks down complex problems into potention solutions, knowns, and unknowns | Spearheading company wide technology initiatives | Evangelist for the company by being actively involved in the communities |
| Purposeful |  | Makes positive impact on the entire company's technical trajectory |  |
| Assertive |  | Seen as a role model and mentor to every technical member of the team |  |
| Adaptable |  |  |  |
| Completely self-driven |  |  |  |
| Demonstrates independent decision making |  |  |  |
